---
layout: post
title: What do you want to end up doing?
published: true
---
<p>We had a night out with the company i am working for, yesterday. It was a goodbye night for one of the guys that quitted and is going to start his own business. He did exactly what my plans are. Starting my own thing on the side and then, when it starts to bring in some money, quit the 9-5 and focus on it entirely.</p>
<p>I spent some time chatting with another guy who was actually the founder of the aforementioned company. The company has been acquired last year and he is not working full time here anymore, just some hours a week because he likes it. He is doing other things in his life and one of them is mentoring local &ldquo;problematic&rdquo; teenagers (all of them coming from difficult situations within their families).</p>
<p>I have no idea how (and maybe the reason were a couple of beers we all had) but we ended up talking about the purpose of life. He asked me why I came here, what is my drive, what i want from life. I said that coming to Scotland was just a coincidence but my main purpose is being free and independent and doing stuff that fulfills me.</p>
<p>&ldquo;What do you want end up doing?&rdquo;</p>
<p>&ldquo;I have no idea but i guess it has got to be something with music.&rdquo;</p>
<p>I really don&rsquo;t know why I said that. I have given up the idea of a career in music long time ago. Yes, it was my child dream. For a long time. But along the way I somehow gave it up and turned the hours I was spending on the computer making music into hours spending on programming. Both have something in common - the feel that I am playing and not working. Both have the power to completely absorb me and make me forget about time.</p>
<p>Then he asked me one thing that made me think: &ldquo;But what is it going to give to others? What is it that you have, that you want to give to others? You need to know why you are doing what you are doing. And your drive must always be to give value to people. It is the most important and rewarding thing.&rdquo;</p>
<p>I guess he is right. We do our best work when we do it because we want to make someone feel good. Giving gifts is rewarding but we tend to give them rarely because we are tought to be greedy.</p>
<p>Today I spent all day thinking about how to find a way to give something valuable to people. And i realized that it doesn&rsquo;t have to be some multimillion-dolar goverment-funded organisation type of service. No. It can actually start on a very basic, day-to-day interaction. You start by listening to people. Really listening and giving them your full attention. And no, not the type of listening that we usually do. You know, when we kind of listen but internally we have this monologue going on and judging what they are saying to us. I mean real, unconditional listening. Just accepting them as they are and see things from their point of view. You don&rsquo;t have to agree or disagree with them. You just accept them.</p>
